Hello everybody and welcome to trigger volumes in this lecture.
We are going to add a trigger volume to our scene and then we're going to jump straight into a challenge.
It's one of those challenges that's going to combine everything you've learned so far.
So shouldn't be too much of a stretch but there will be a little bit of reading to do says go over into
one real okay.
So there are a couple of ways in which we can add the trigger volume.
It is available over on the left hand side.
We can see there are some other types of triggers here.
There's a box trigger and a sphere trigger.
And in general triggers are incredibly useful.
They will enable you to set points in the game where in this case we step onto it and it's going to
open the door.
Later on we will set a weight limit for that.
So we will be able to open it but as soon as we walk off of it the door shut.
So that's also really useful.
And of course you can use triggers for many other things as well such as spawning in enemies when you
pass a certain point.
I'm sure you've all played a game before where you enter a room and it's only when you enter the room
that all the enemies appear.
And that's exactly the type of thing we're using.
So we need to go to a volume on the left hand side and of course there are going to be a lot of volumes
here and for right down near the bottom there is a trigger volume.
Now what you could have done is also at the top here underclass is searched for a trigger and we can
see here trigger volume is one of those options.
Let's go ahead and click and drag that into our scene and we can see it just appears in scene like any
other actor would.
Now I'm going to place this in the back corner over here.
Now there's no affordable it's that you need to go and stand in there so I might add a spotlight in
time but for the moment I just wants the trigger volume all the way back here.
Now whilst I'm doing this one of the things I would encourage you to always do said it before is naming.
So we have currently it's just called trigger volume let's call it a pressure plate.
That's useful because we know what's that trigger volume is actually going to do.
Or just press plates maybe that's high pressure plates.
There we go.
Okay.
So that's all in our scene and ready to go and what we want to be able to do but we won't be doing in
this particular lecture is we want to be able to enter this pressure zone or this volume at the moment
and just trigger the doors to open first of all we need to link these two together and we're going to
do that in our challenge okay.
So your challenge is going to be to assign the trigger volume so declare an a trigger volume star pressure
plate.
Now I'm going to call it pressure plate.
You can call it something else if you want but that won't also complete until you have the right hash
include.
Now I'm not going to tell you what it is here.
I want you to go and research what you would need to do in order to have that not only autocomplete
but the compiler actually work.
Otherwise it will fail compilation.
Make the pressure plate a few properties so we can edit it anywhere and then in the UAE for Ed on the
open door component set the trigger volume to the one we've placed in our scene.
So you'll be able to pick it from a list of trigger volumes and you will need to compile in order to
do this.
And now just a warning ahead of time.
Anything with the Open Door component on it but not set which volume it's going to use will crash the
editor now when we implement it so it won't be this time round but I will show you what will happen
otherwise because it's not clear in the aerial or the logs what's actually happened when you go ahead
and do this this is nasty undefined behavior error but we will also put safeguards in place so it doesn't
cause us any issues.
Now before we go ahead and dive in to the challenge I'd just like to do one final warning.
In our code here at the moment when you go ahead and find the right hash include that you're going to
use make sure that the open door that generated H currently line 7 is at the bottom of all of the hash
includes.
So don't put the new hash include underneath.
Okay so go ahead pause a video now.
Probably take you between five and 15 minutes depending on your skill level to implement this and I'll
see you back in a few moments
okay.
Everybody welcome back.
Let's go ahead and assign I'll trigger volume okay.
So we'll start with the hash include.
So our auto complete works and it will compile so we can hash include.
Now there is a chance here that when you were finding out what you could use that you found something
that also includes within it the engine hash slash trigger volume pedophile but the direct one that
we need to include here is the engine slash trick volume pedophile.
And I'm going to save my file and scroll down the next thing we need is a new property.
So we're going to start typing that in.
I seem to always be able to finish typing it before the intel he sense kicks in.
And this is also going to be edit anywhere.
The next thing we wants to do is declare an a trigger volume.
He knows that I've used this before.
Remember it's a pointer.
So we're gonna use the star there and we're going to call it.
We could call it trigger volume.
I'm gonna call it pressure plates.
Again the names that I use a new use is entirely up to you especially if you're taking a project off
on a slightly different tangent.
I know some of you like taking the lectures that you're learning and applying it immediately to your
own projects.
Slightly different.
Great way of learning.
Okay so that's all the code that we need.
Let's go ahead over into unreal and click compile and then what we should be able to see is that our
pressure plate becomes an option or indeed.
Here we go compile completely select our door our open door component.
And here we go.
We've got our pressure plates and from this dropdown we can select the trigger volume called pressure
plate.
Now I'm only going to apply it to this one door at the moment so in a couple of lectures time I can
show you a crash that we will have to mitigate.
But I would advise that you make sure that anything that has the open door component on it has the pressure
plate actually have something in it it won't crash at the moment whether or not it's has one but it
will do once we actually implement it which we will be doing in the next lecture.
See there.